README.md, before:

Description
===========

This is the test suites from a number of W3C Working Groups, including the HTML
Working Group, the Web Apps Working Group, the Device APIs Working Group, and
the Web Apps Security Working Group.

Running the Tests
=================

The tests are designed to be run from your local computer. The test environment
requires Python 2.7+ (but not Python 3.x).

To get the tests running, you need to set up the test domains in your 
[`hosts` file](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hosts_%28file%29%23Location_in_the_file_system). The following entries are required:

```
127.0.0.1	web-platform.test
127.0.0.1	www.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1	www1.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1	www2.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1	xn--n8j6ds53lwwkrqhv28a.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1	xn--lve-6lad.web-platform.test
```

Because web-platform-tests uses git submodules, you must ensure that
these are up to date. In the root of your checkout, run:

```
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

The test environment can then be started using

```
python serve.py
```

This will start HTTP servers on two ports and a websockets server on
one port. By default one web server starts on port 8000 and the other
ports are randomly-chosen free ports. Tests must be loaded from the
*first* HTTP server in the output. To change the ports, edit the
`config.json` file, for example, replacing the part that reads:

```
"http": [8000, "auto"]
```

to some port of your choice e.g.

```
"http":[1234, "auto"]
```

Test Runner
===========

There is a test runner that is designed to provide a
convenient way to run the web-platform tests in-browser. It will run
testharness.js tests automatically but requires manual work for
reftests and manual tests.

In order to use the runner, it is first necessary to generate a test
manifest. This must be called `MANIFEST.json` and placed in the
web-platform-tests root.

You must do this step to use the test runner, even if you are not
creating a new test suite.

To generate this file, from a command prompt at the root
directory of the repo, run:

```
python tools/scripts/manifest.py
```
This `tools/scripts/manifest.py` needs python `html5lib` package.
If you have not installed it yet, run:
```
pip install html5lib
```

On Mac OS X, python is installed with Xcode, but pip is not. Try
```
sudo easy_install pip
```
if pip is not already on your system.


Running the tests requires that the test environment be activated as
described above. The runner can be found at `/tools/runner/index.html`
on the local server i.e.

```
http://web-platform.test:8000/tools/runner/index.html
```

in the default configuration.

Publication
===========

The master branch is automatically synced to http://w3c-test.org/.

Pull requests that have been checked are automatically mirrored to
http://w3c-test.org/submissions/.

Finding Things
==============

Each top-level directory represents a W3C specification: the name
matches the shortname used after the canonical address of the said
specification under http://www.w3.org/TR/ .

For some of the specifications, the tree under the top-level directory
represents the sections of the respective documents, using the section
IDs for directory names, with a maximum of three levels deep.

So if you're looking for tests in HTML for "The History interface",
they will be under `html/browsers/history/the-history-interface/`.

Various resources that tests depend on are in `common`, `images`, and
`fonts`.


If you're looking at a section of the specification and can't figure
out where the directory is for it in the tree, just run:

```
node tools/scripts/id2path.js your-id
```

Branches
========

In the vast majority of cases the **only** branch that you should need
to care about is `master`.

There is another branch called `CR`. This is a strict subset of
`master` that is limited to features that are found in the Candidate
Recommendation version of the relevant specifications.

If you see other branches in the repository, you can generally safely
ignore them. Please note that branches prefixed with `temp/` are
temporary branches and **can** get deleted at some point. So don't
base any work off them unless you want to see your work destroyed.

Contributing
============

Save the Web, Write Some Tests!

Absolutely everyone is welcome (and even encouraged) to contribute to
test development, so long as you fulfill the contribution requirements
detailed in the [Contributing Guidelines][contributing]. No test is
too small or too simple, especially if it corresponds to something for
which you've noted an interoperability bug in a browser.

The way to contribute is just as usual:

* fork this repository (and make sure you're still relatively in sync
  with it if you forked a while ago);
* create a branch for your changes:
  `git checkout -b your-name/topic`;
* make your changes;
* push that to your repo;
* and send in a pull request based on the above.

Please make your pull requests either to `master` or to a feature
branch (but not to `CR`).

We can sometimes take a little while to go through pull requests
because we have to go through all the tests and ensure that they match
the specification correctly. But we look at all of them, and take
everything that we can.

If you wish to contribute actively, you're very welcome to join the
public-test-infra@w3.org mailing list (low traffic) by
[signing up to our mailing list](mailto:public-test-infra-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe).

Join us on irc #testing ([irc.w3.org][ircw3org], port 6665). The channel
is [archived][ircarchive].

[contributing]: https://github.com/w3c/web-platform-tests/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
[ircw3org]: https://www.w3.org/wiki/IRC
[ircarchive]: http://krijnhoetmer.nl/irc-logs/testing/

Documentation
-------------

* [How to write and review tests](http://testthewebforward.org/docs/)
* [Documentation for the wptserve server](http://wptserve.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

Commit message:

Support running tests with SSL.
This adds support for launching a https server either using a
real CA-issued certificate, or a self-signed certificate generated
using OpenSSL. The latter in intended for most testing use cases.

README.md, after:

Description
===========

This is the test suites from a number of W3C Working Groups, including the HTML
Working Group, the Web Apps Working Group, the Device APIs Working Group, and
the Web Apps Security Working Group.

Running the Tests
=================

The tests are designed to be run from your local computer. The test
environment requires Python 2.7+ (but not Python 3.x). You will also
need a copy of OpenSSL. For users on Windows this is available from
[the openssl website](https://www.openssl.org/related/binaries.html).

To get the tests running, you need to set up the test domains in your
[`hosts` file](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hosts_%28file%29%23Location_in_the_file_system). The following entries are required:

```
127.0.0.1	web-platform.test
127.0.0.1	www.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1	www1.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1	www2.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1	xn--n8j6ds53lwwkrqhv28a.web-platform.test
127.0.0.1	xn--lve-6lad.web-platform.test
```

Because web-platform-tests uses git submodules, you must ensure that
these are up to date. In the root of your checkout, run:

```
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

The test environment can then be started using

```
python serve.py
```

This will start HTTP servers on two ports and a websockets server on
one port. By default one web server starts on port 8000 and the other
ports are randomly-chosen free ports. Tests must be loaded from the
*first* HTTP server in the output. To change the ports, edit the
`config.json` file, for example, replacing the part that reads:

```
"http": [8000, "auto"]
```

to some port of your choice e.g.

```
"http":[1234, "auto"]
```

If you installed OpenSSL in such a way that running `openssl` at a
command line doesn't work, you also need to adjust the path to the
OpenSSL binary. This can be done by adding a section to `config.json`
like:

```
"ssl": {"openssl": {"binary": "/path/to/openssl"}}
```

Test Runner
===========

There is a test runner that is designed to provide a
convenient way to run the web-platform tests in-browser. It will run
testharness.js tests automatically but requires manual work for
reftests and manual tests.

In order to use the runner, it is first necessary to generate a test
manifest. This must be called `MANIFEST.json` and placed in the
web-platform-tests root.

You must do this step to use the test runner, even if you are not
creating a new test suite.

To generate this file, from a command prompt at the root
directory of the repo, run:

```
python tools/scripts/manifest.py
```
This `tools/scripts/manifest.py` needs python `html5lib` package.
If you have not installed it yet, run:
```
pip install html5lib
```

On Mac OS X, python is installed with Xcode, but pip is not. Try
```
sudo easy_install pip
```
if pip is not already on your system.


Running the tests requires that the test environment be activated as
described above. The runner can be found at `/tools/runner/index.html`
on the local server i.e.

```
http://web-platform.test:8000/tools/runner/index.html
```

in the default configuration.

Publication
===========

The master branch is automatically synced to http://w3c-test.org/.

Pull requests that have been checked are automatically mirrored to
http://w3c-test.org/submissions/.

Finding Things
==============

Each top-level directory represents a W3C specification: the name
matches the shortname used after the canonical address of the said
specification under http://www.w3.org/TR/ .

For some of the specifications, the tree under the top-level directory
represents the sections of the respective documents, using the section
IDs for directory names, with a maximum of three levels deep.

So if you're looking for tests in HTML for "The History interface",
they will be under `html/browsers/history/the-history-interface/`.

Various resources that tests depend on are in `common`, `images`, and
`fonts`.


If you're looking at a section of the specification and can't figure
out where the directory is for it in the tree, just run:

```
node tools/scripts/id2path.js your-id
```

Branches
========

In the vast majority of cases the **only** branch that you should need
to care about is `master`.

There is another branch called `CR`. This is a strict subset of
`master` that is limited to features that are found in the Candidate
Recommendation version of the relevant specifications.

If you see other branches in the repository, you can generally safely
ignore them. Please note that branches prefixed with `temp/` are
temporary branches and **can** get deleted at some point. So don't
base any work off them unless you want to see your work destroyed.

Contributing
============

Save the Web, Write Some Tests!

Absolutely everyone is welcome (and even encouraged) to contribute to
test development, so long as you fulfill the contribution requirements
detailed in the [Contributing Guidelines][contributing]. No test is
too small or too simple, especially if it corresponds to something for
which you've noted an interoperability bug in a browser.

The way to contribute is just as usual:

* fork this repository (and make sure you're still relatively in sync
  with it if you forked a while ago);
* create a branch for your changes:
  `git checkout -b your-name/topic`;
* make your changes;
* push that to your repo;
* and send in a pull request based on the above.

Please make your pull requests either to `master` or to a feature
branch (but not to `CR`).

We can sometimes take a little while to go through pull requests
because we have to go through all the tests and ensure that they match
the specification correctly. But we look at all of them, and take
everything that we can.

If you wish to contribute actively, you're very welcome to join the
public-test-infra@w3.org mailing list (low traffic) by
[signing up to our mailing list](mailto:public-test-infra-request@w3.org?subject=subscribe).

Join us on irc #testing ([irc.w3.org][ircw3org], port 6665). The channel
is [archived][ircarchive].

[contributing]: https://github.com/w3c/web-platform-tests/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
[ircw3org]: https://www.w3.org/wiki/IRC
[ircarchive]: http://krijnhoetmer.nl/irc-logs/testing/

Documentation
-------------

* [How to write and review tests](http://testthewebforward.org/docs/)
* [Documentation for the wptserve server](http://wptserve.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)
